*AalbS2* assembly
-----------------

::: {#content}
::: {#content-inner}
::: {#block-system-main}
<div>

This assembly is a re-scaffolding of *AalbS1* using a high resolution
cytogenetic map to construct a chromosome based genome assembly as
described in the publication \"[The physical genome mapping of Anopheles
albimanus corrected scaffold misassemblies and Identified inter-arm
rearrangements in genus
Anopheles](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27821634)\" . Subsequent
physical mapping, assisted by an ortholog-based bioinformatics approach,
identified and corrected 9 misassemblies in 5 large genomic scaffolds.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

The initial (*AalbS1*) assembly was generated using 101 bp paired-end
Illumina HiSeq2000 reads generated from three libraries: a 180 bp insert
'fragment' library, a 1.5 kb 'jump' library, and a 38 kb 'fosill'
library. Sequencing template for the fragment and jump libraries was
derived from genomic DNA extracted from a single individual, which was
preserved by freezing at -80C. Native genomic DNA was used for the
fragment library and whole genome amplified DNA was used for the jump
library. Template for the fosill library was generated from a pooled
extraction of many individuals. Reads were assembled at the Broad
Institute using the ALLPATHS LG algorithm, with the Haploidify option
enabled to address high allelic heterozygosity in the
template.\[no-lexicon\]

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>
:::
:::
:::
