About *Pediculus humanus*
-------------------------

The human body louse, *Pediculus humanus corporis* is the primary vector
of the bacterial agents of louse-borne relapsing fever, trench fever,
and epidemic typhus. Epidemic typhus, one of the most significant
historical human diseases, is caused by *Rickettsia prowazekii*, a
category B bioterrorism agent that can cause persistent human infection.
Besides its notoriety as the agent of the recurrent chronic disease,
trench fever, *Bartonella quintana* can cause endocarditis and is a
common infection among the homeless. *Borrelia recurrentis* causes
another recurrent fever in central and Eastern Africa that is
characterized by significant morbidity and mortality. The genome
sequences of *R. prowazekii* and *B. quintana* have been determined, as
well as those of two species of *Borrelia*, so the body louse genome
will enhance studies of host-vector-pathogen interactions.

Picture credit (public domain): [James
Gathany](http://phil.cdc.gov/phil/details_linked.asp?pid=9205) (CDC)
2006

Strain *USDA*
-------------

The human body louse DNA (*Pediculus humanus humanus* strain) was
provided by Dr. John Clark of the University of Massachusetts. Dr.
Clark\'s colony originated from the colony maintained in Dr. Kosta
Mumcuoglu's laboratory (Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel). Dr.
Mumcuoglu's louse colony was established from the strain maintained at
the USDA laboratory (Gainesville, FL). The colony has been maintained at
the University of Massachusetts on rabbits for 8 years. According to the
initial report by Culpepper (1944), he first colonized the body lice in
1942 at the laboratory of the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine
(Orlando, FL). In 1945, Culpepper successfully reared his body lice on
rabbits. Although it is not clear if the louse strain maintained at the
USDA Gainesville laboratory was from Culpepper's strain, the rearing
methods are identical.
