About *Triticum aestivum*
-------------------------

This Ensembl Plants pre-site contains the first release of the IWGSC
RefSeq v1.0 genome assembly of *Triticum aestivum* cv. Chinese Spring,
generated by [IWGSC](https://www.wheatgenome.org/). The assembly has a
chromosomal scaffold/ superscaffold N50 of 22.8
MBb.

Triticum aestivum (bread wheat) is a major global cereal grain essential
to human nutrition. Wheat was one of the first cereals to be
domesticated, originating in the fertile crescent around 7000 years ago.
Bread wheat is hexaploid, with a genome size estimated at \~17 Gbp,
composed of three closely-related and independently maintained genomes
that are the result of a series of naturally occurring hybridization
events. The ancestral progenitor genomes are considered to be Triticum
urartu (the A-genome donor) and an unknown grass thought to be related
to Aegilops speltoides (the B-genome donor). This first hybridization
event produced tetraploid emmer wheat (AABB, T. dicoccoides) which
hybridized again with Aegilops tauschii (the D-genome donor) to produce
modern bread wheat.

The main Ensembl Plants site
(<http://plants.ensembl.org/Triticum_aestivum/Info/Index>) contains the
TGACv1 assembly and will be replaced by IWGSCv1 in the next release
(July).

The TGACv1 assembly will continue to be availble via the Ensmble Archive
site.
