About *Amanita muscaria Koide BX008 (GCA\_000827485)* 
-----------------------------------------------------



***Amanita muscaria***, commonly known as the **fly agaric** or **fly
amanita**, is a basidiomycete mushroom, one of many in the genus
*Amanita*. It is also a muscimol mushroom. Native throughout the
temperate and boreal regions of the Northern Hemisphere, *Amanita
muscaria* has been unintentionally introduced to many countries in the
Southern Hemisphere, generally as a symbiont with pine and birch
plantations, and is now a true cosmopolitan species. It associates with
various deciduous and coniferous trees.

Arguably the most iconic toadstool species, the fly agaric is a large
white-gilled, white-spotted, usually red mushroom, and is one of the
most recognisable and widely encountered in popular culture.

Although classified as poisonous, reports of human deaths resulting from
its ingestion are extremely rare. After parboiling---which weakens its
toxicity and breaks down the mushroom\'s psychoactive substances---it is
eaten in parts of Europe, Asia, and North America. *Amanita muscaria* is
noted for its hallucinogenic properties, with its main psychoactive
constituents being the compounds ibotenic acid and muscimol. The
mushroom was used as an intoxicant and entheogen by the peoples of
Siberia, and has a religious significance in these cultures. There has
been much speculation on possible traditional use of this mushroom as an
intoxicant in other places such as the Middle East, Eurasia, North
America, and Scandinavia.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amanita_muscaria) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:2006-10-25_Amanita_muscaria_crop.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
