About *Amanita thiersii Skay4041 (GCA\_002554575)* {#about-amanita-thiersii-skay4041-gca_002554575 .first}
--------------------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saproamanita_thiersii)

***Amanita thiersii*** or ***Saproamanita thiersii***, commonly called
**Thiers\' lepidella**, is a North-American saprotrophic basidiomycete
fungus in the genus *Amanita*. It is a white mushroom originally
described from Texas but today found in nine states of North America. It
was named after Harry Delbert Thiers. The cap of this small mushroom is
white and convex, measuring and covered by volval remnants. It is sticky
to the touch when wet. The gills are variable in length and number and
are densely packed in some specimens and widely spaced in others. They
are not attached to the stipe, which is long and about thick, with a
white ring. The spores measure 7.8--9.8 by 7.3--9.0 µm and are roughly
spherical in shape. The spore print is white.

The mushroom grows in lawns, pastures and prairies. It is a saprotroph,
living on decaying plant material, and not mycorrhizal as is the case
with *Amanita* species. Previously it was placed in *Amanita*, but in
2016 the saprophytic members of that genus were separated off into the
new genus *Saproamanita* by one research group, though this split is
controversial. Fruit bodies appear during July and August, either in
isolation or in groups, and often form fairy rings. The genome of
*A. thiersii* is being sequenced as part of the United States Department
of Energy\'s Joint Genome Institute Community Sequencing Program. It is
hoped that this will provide a better understanding of the cellulose
decomposition capabilities of the fungus. The toxicity of *A. thiersii*
has not been studied but it is suspected of being poisonous.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saproamanita_thiersii) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Amanita_thiersii_121772.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
