About *Amanita muscaria Koide BX008* {#about-amanita-muscaria-koide-bx008 .first}
------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amanita_muscaria)

***Amanita muscaria***, commonly known as the **fly agaric** or **fly
amanita**, is a mushroom and psychoactive basidiomycete fungus, one of
many in the genus *Amanita*. Native throughout the temperate and boreal
regions of the Northern Hemisphere, *Amanita muscaria* has been
unintentionally introduced to many countries in the Southern Hemisphere,
generally as a symbiont with pine and birch plantations, and is now a
true cosmopolitan species. It associates with various deciduous and
coniferous trees.

The quintessential toadstool, it is a large white-gilled, white-spotted,
usually red mushroom, one of the most recognisable and widely
encountered in popular culture. Several subspecies with differing cap
colour have been recognised, including the brown *regalis* (often
considered a separate species), the yellow-orange *flavivolvata*,
*guessowii*, *formosa*, and the pinkish *persicina*. Genetic studies
published in 2006 and 2008 show several sharply delineated clades that
may represent separate species.

Although classified as poisonous, reports of human deaths resulting from
its ingestion are extremely rare. After parboiling---which weakens its
toxicity and breaks down the mushroom\'s psychoactive substances---it is
eaten in parts of Europe, Asia, and North America. *Amanita muscaria* is
noted for its hallucinogenic properties, with its main psychoactive
constituent being the compound muscimol. The mushroom was used as an
intoxicant and entheogen by the peoples of Siberia, and has a religious
significance in these cultures. There has been much speculation on
possible traditional use of this mushroom as an intoxicant in other
places such as the Middle East, Eurasia, North America, and Scandinavia.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amanita_muscaria) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
