About *Armillaria ostoyae (GCA\_900157425)* {#about-armillaria-ostoyae-gca_900157425 .first}
-------------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armillaria_ostoyae)

***Armillaria ostoyae*** (sometimes called ***Armillaria solidipes***)
is a species of plant pathogenic fungus in the Physalacriaceae family.
It is the most common variant in the western U.S., of the group of
species that all used to share the name *Armillaria mellea*. *Armillaria
ostoyae* is quite common on both hardwood and conifer wood in forests
west of the Cascade crest. The mycelium attacks the sapwood and is able
to travel great distances under the bark or between trees in the form of
black rhizomorphs (\"shoestrings\").

In most areas of North America, *Armillaria ostoyae* can be separated
from other species by its physical features. Its brown colors, fairly
prominent scales featured on its cap, and the well-developed ring on its
stem sets it apart from any *Armillaria*. (Herink, 1973)

It is known to be one of the largest living organisms, where scientists
have estimated a single specimen found in Malheur National Forest in
Oregon to be 2,400 years old, covering and colloquially named the
\"**Humongous Fungus**\". *Armillaria ostoyae* grows and spreads
primarily underground and the bulk of the organism lies in the ground,
out of sight. Hence, the organism is invisible from the surface. In the
autumn this organism blooms \"honey mushrooms\", evidence of the
organism beneath. Low competition for land and nutrients have allowed
this organism to grow so huge; it possibly covers more geographical area
than any other living organism.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armillaria_ostoyae) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Armillaria_ostoyae.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
