About *Armillaria gallica str. Ar21-2 (GCA\_002307695)* {#about-armillaria-gallica-str.-ar21-2-gca_002307695 .first}
-------------------------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armillaria_gallica)

***Armillaria gallica*** (synonymous with *A. bulbosa* and *A. lutea*)
is a species of honey mushroom in the family Physalacriaceae of the
order Agaricales. The species is a common and ecologically important
wood-decay fungus that can live as a saprobe, or as an opportunistic
parasite in weakened tree hosts to cause root or butt rot. It is found
in temperate regions of Asia, North America, and Europe. The species
forms fruit bodies singly or in groups in soil or rotting wood. The
fungus has been inadvertently introduced to South Africa. *Armillaria
gallica* has had a confusing taxonomy, due in part to historical
difficulties encountered in distinguishing between similar *Armillaria*
species. The fungus received international attention in the early 1990s
when an individual colony living in a Michigan forest was reported to
cover an area of , weigh at least , and be 1,500 years old. This
individual is popularly known as the \"humungous fungus\", and is a
tourist attraction and inspiration for an annual mushroom-themed
festival in Crystal Falls.

*Armillaria gallica* is a largely subterranean fungus, and it produces
fruit bodies that are up to about in diameter, yellow-brown, and covered
with small scales. On the underside of the caps are gills that are white
to creamy or pale orange. The stem may be up to long, with a white
cobwebby ring that divides the color of the stem into pale orange to
brown above, and lighter-colored below. The fungus can develop an
extensive system of underground root-like structures, called
rhizomorphs, that help it to efficiently decompose dead wood in
temperate broadleaf and mixed forests. It has been the subject of
considerable scientific research due to its importance as a plant
pathogen, its ability to bioluminesce, its unusual life cycle, and its
ability to form large and long-lived colonies.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armillaria_gallica) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Armillaria_gallica_26659.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
