About *Aspergillus aculeatus ATCC 16872 (GCA\_001890905)* 
---------------------------------------------------------



***Aspergillus aculeatus*** is a fungus species in the genus
*Aspergillus*. It has been implicated as the causative agent in plant
disease. *A. aculeatus* belongs to the group of black *Aspergilli* which
are important industrial workhorses. *A. aculeatus* belongs to the
*Nigri* section.

*Aspergillus aculeatus* is considered to be a ubiquitous species that
could be usually isolated from rotting fruits and soil. Morphological
characteristics such a color, size, shape and ornamentation of conidia
are crucial for the classification of strains of black-spored
*Aspergillu*s species. Modern biochemical and molecular identification
techniques are helpful in the identification of *Aspergillus* isolates,
as black-spored *Aspergillus* species may have significant variations in
their morphological and physiological characteristics.

*Aspergillus* could rapidly degrade cell walls of plants they infect,
and isolates of *A. aculeatus* have been used to produce a number of
important industrial enzymes, including cellulases, hemicellulases and
proteases. These by-products are broadly used in the food and feed
industries.

Due to its industrial value, the biochemical and catalytic properties of
several hydrolases from *A. aculeatus* have been extensively studied.
Also, structural studies using X-ray crystallography have been carried
on several polysaccharide degrading enzymes from *Aspergillus
aculeatus*. (Luis M. Chong L.)

The genome of *A.* *aculeatus* was sequenced and published in 2010. The
genome assembly size was 36.01 Mbp.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aspergillus_aculeatus) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
