About *Aureobasidium pullulans (GCA\_001678115)* 
------------------------------------------------



\_\_NOTOC\_\_

***Aureobasidium pullulans*** is a ubiquitous black, yeast-like fungus
that can be found in different environments (e.g. soil, water, air and
limestone). It is well known as a naturally occurring epiphyte or
endophyte of a wide range of plant species (e.g. apple, grape, cucumber,
green beans, cabbage) without causing any symptoms of disease.

*A. pullulans* can be cultivated on potato dextrose agar, where it
produces smooth, faint pink, yeast-like colonies covered with a slimy
mass of spores. Older colonies change to black due to chlamydospore
production. Primary conidia are hyaline, smooth, ellipsoidal,
one-celled, and variable in shape and size; secondary conidia are
smaller. Conidiophores are undifferentiated, intercalary or terminal, or
arising as short lateral branches. Endoconidia are produced in an
intercalary cell and released into a neighboring empty cell. Hyphae are
hyaline, smooth, and thinwalled, with transverse septa. The fungus grows
at 10--35 °C with optimum growth at 30 °C.

*A. pullulans* is notable for its phenotypic plasticity. Colony
morphology may be affected by carbon source, colony age, temperature,
light and substrate, with colonies ranging from homogeneous to sectored,
yeast-like to filamentous growth, and from small to large. Besides these
morphological plasticity *A. pullulans* is also adaptable to various
stressful conditions: hypersaline, acidic and alkaline, cold, and
oligotrophic. Therefore, it is considered to be polyextremotolerant.

The morphology-based taxonomy of the species is complicated by the large
morphological variability between strains and even within a single
strain. Based on molecular analyses, four varieties of the species *A.
pullulans* were recognised: var. *pullulans* from substrates with low
water activity and the phyllosphere; var. *melanogenum* from aquatic
habitats; var. *subglaciale* from glacial habitats; and var. *namibiae*,
which was described on the basis of only one strain isolated from
dolomitic marble in Namibia. However, when the genome sequences of these
varieties became available, the differences between them were considered
as too large to be accommodated in a single species. Therefore, the
varieties were reclassified as new species: *A. pullulans*, *A.
melanogenum*, *A. subglaciale*, and *A. namibiae*.

Due to the relatively recent redefinition of the species, most published
work does not yet distinguish between the new species belonging to the
previously recognised *A. pullulans* species complex. It is therefore
not clear to what extent this knowledge is valid for *A. pullulans* *s.
str.* and what should be attributed to the three new species.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aureobasidium_pullulans) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Aureobasidium_pullulans_44026.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
