
About *Aureobasidium pullulans (GCA\_004918165.1)* 
--------------------------------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aureobasidium_pullulans)

Aureobasidium pullulans is a ubiquitous and generalistic black, yeast-like
fungus that can be found in different environments (e.g. soil, water, air and
limestone). It is well known as a naturally occurring epiphyte or endophyte of a
wide range of plant species (e.g. apple, grape, cucumber, green beans, cabbage)
without causing any symptoms of disease.
A. pullulans can be cultivated on potato dextrose agar, where it produces
smooth, faint pink, yeast-like colonies covered with a slimy mass of spores.
Older colonies change to black due to chlamydospore production. Primary conidia
are hyaline, smooth, ellipsoidal, one-celled, and variable in shape and size;
secondary conidia are smaller. Conidiophores are undifferentiated, intercalary
or terminal, or arising as short lateral branches. Endoconidia are produced in
an intercalary cell and released into a neighboring empty cell. Hyphae are
hyaline, smooth, and thinwalled, with transverse septa. The fungus grows at
10–35 °C with optimum growth at 30 °C.
A. pullulans is notable for its phenotypic plasticity. Colony morphology may be
affected by carbon source, colony age, temperature, light and substrate, with
colonies ranging from homogeneous to sectored, yeast-like to filamentous growth,
and from small to large. Besides these morphological plasticity A. pullulans is
also adaptable to various stressful conditions: hypersaline, acidic and
alkaline, cold, and oligotrophic. Therefore, it is considered to be
polyextremotolerant. The genome also contains a homothallic mating-type locus.
Despite the presence in the genome of a putative mating locus, and the
observation of high recombination rates, no sexual cycle has yet been reported
in this organism.
Due to the relatively recent redefinition of the species, most published work
does not yet distinguish between the new species belonging to the previously
recognised A. pullulans species complex. It is therefore not clear to what
extent this knowledge is valid for A. pullulans s. str. and what should be
attributed to the three new species.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aureobasidium_pullulans) from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/) 

