About *Batrachochytrium salamandrivorans str. BS (GCA\_002006685)* {#about-batrachochytrium-salamandrivorans-str.-bs-gca_002006685 .first}
------------------------------------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Batrachochytrium_salamandrivorans)

***Batrachochytrium salamandrivorans*** (*Bsal*) is a pathogenic chytrid
fungus that infects salamanders and newts and emerged only recently as a
potentially important threat to species in Europe and North America.

It was described in 2013 based on a strain collected from skin tissue of
fire salamanders. The pathogen, unidentified up to then, had devastated
fire salamander populations in the Netherlands. Molecular phylogenetics
confirmed it as related to the well known chytrid *B. dendrobatidis*.
Like this species, it causes chytridiomycosis which is manifested in
skin lesions and is lethal for the salamanders.

Another study estimated that this species had diverged from *B.
dendrobatidis* in the Late Cretaceous or early Paleogene. It was shown
that while frogs and caecilians were immune to *B. salamandrivorans*, it
was lethal to many European and some North American salamanders. East
Asian salamanders were susceptible but able to limit the infection. The
fungus was also detected in a more-than-150-year-old museum specimen of
the Japanese sword-tailed newt. This suggests it had originally emerged
and co-evolved with salamanders in East Asia, forming its natural
reservoir, and was introduced to Europe rather recently through the
trade of species such as the fire belly newts as pets.

The description of this pathogen and its aggressiveness raised concern
in the scientific community and the public, fearing that it might be a
rising threat to Western hemisphere salamanders. On January 12, 2016,
the U.S. government issued a directive that prohibited the importation
of salamanders in order to reduce the threat posed by *B.
salamandrivorans*.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Batrachochytrium_salamandrivorans)
and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Batrachochytrium_salamandrivorans_infection.png)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
