About *Blastomyces dermatitidis SLH14081* 
-----------------------------------------



***Blastomyces dermatitidis*** is the causal agent of blastomycosis, an
invasive and often serious fungal infection found occasionally in humans
and other animals in regions where the fungus is endemic. The causal
organism is a fungus living in soil and wet, decaying wood, often in an
area close to a waterway such as a lake, river or stream. Indoor growth
may also occur, for example, in accumulated debris in damp sheds or
shacks. The fungus is endemic to parts of eastern North America,
particularly boreal northern Ontario, southeastern Manitoba, Quebec
south of the St. Lawrence River, parts of the U.S. Appalachian mountains
and interconnected eastern mountain chains, the west bank of Lake
Michigan, the state of Wisconsin, and the entire Mississippi Valley
including the valleys of some major tributaries such as the Ohio River.
In addition, it occurs rarely in Africa both north and south of the
Sahara desert, as well as in the Arabian Peninsula and the Indian
subcontinent. Though it has never been directly observed growing in
nature, it is thought to grow there as a cottony white mold, similar to
the growth seen in artificial culture at 25 °C. In an infected human or
animal, however, it converts in growth form and becomes a large-celled
budding yeast. Blastomycosis is generally readily treatable with
systemic antifungal drugs once it is correctly diagnosed; however,
delayed diagnosis is very common except in highly endemic areas.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blastomyces) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
