About *Candida parapsilosis CDC317* {#about-candida-parapsilosis-cdc317 .first}
-----------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Candida_parapsilosis)

***Candida parapsilosis*** is a fungal species of the yeast family that
has become a significant cause of sepsis and of wound and tissue
infections in immuno-compromised patients. The immune system is a major
player in *Candida parapsilosis* infections. Unlike *Candida albicans*
and *Candida tropicalis*, *Candida parapsilosis* is not an obligate
human pathogen, having been isolated from nonhuman sources such as
domestic animals, insects or soil. *Candida parapsilosis* is also a
normal human commensal and it is one of the fungi most frequently
isolated from the human hands. There are several risk factors which can
help *Candida parapsilosis* to colonize human host. Immuno-compromised
individuals and surgical patients, particularly those having surgery of
the gastrointestinal tract are at high risk for infection with *Candida
parapsilosis*. There is currently no consensus on the treatment of
invasive *Candida parapsilosis* diseases, although the therapeutic
approach typically includes the extraction of any removable foreign
bodies and the administration of a systemic anti fungal. Historically,
Amphotericin B has been the most frequently used anti fungal.
Fluconazole is a frequently administrated alternative to Amphotericin B.

In one study of onychomycosis (infection of the nails) *Candida
parapsilosis* was the most common *Candida* species.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Candida_parapsilosis) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
