
About *Cercospora zeae-maydis SCOH1-5 (GCA\_010093985.1)* 
--------------------------------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corn_grey_leaf_spot)


Grey leaf spot (GLS) is a foliar fungal disease that affects maize, also known
as corn. GLS is considered one of the most significant yield-limiting diseases
of corn worldwide. There are two fungal pathogens that cause GLS: Cercospora
zeae-maydis and Cercospora zeina. Symptoms seen on corn include leaf lesions,
discoloration (chlorosis), and foliar blight. Distinct symptoms of GLS are
rectangular, brown to gray necrotic lesions that run parallel to the leaf,
spanning the spaces between the secondary leaf veins.  The fungus survives in
the debris of topsoil and infects healthy crop via asexual spores called
conidia. Environmental conditions that best suit infection and growth include
moist, humid, and warm climates. Poor airflow, low sunlight, overcrowding,
improper soil nutrient and irrigation management, and poor soil drainage can all
contribute to the propagation of the disease. Management techniques include crop
resistance, crop rotation, residue management, use of fungicides, and weed
control.  The purpose of disease management is to prevent the amount of
secondary disease cycles as well as to protect leaf area from damage prior to
grain formation. Corn grey leaf spot is an important disease of corn production
in the United States, economically significant throughout the Midwest and
Mid-Atlantic regions. However, it is also prevalent in Africa, Central America,
China, Europe, India, Mexico, the Philippines, northern South America, and
Southeast Asia. The teleomorph (sexual phase) of Cercospora zeae-maydis is
assumed to be Mycosphaerella sp.

([Text](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corn_grey_leaf_spot) from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/) 

