
About *Coprinellus micaceus str. FP101781 (GCA\_004369175.1)* 
--------------------------------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coprinellus_micaceus)

Coprinellus micaceus is a common species of mushroom-forming fungus in the
family Psathyrellaceae with a cosmopolitan distribution. The fruit bodies of the
saprobe typically grow in clusters on or near rotting hardwood tree stumps or
underground tree roots. Depending on their stage of development, the tawny-brown
mushroom caps may range in shape from oval to bell-shaped to convex, and reach
diameters up to . The caps, marked with fine radial or linear grooves that
extend nearly to the center, rest atop whitish stipes up to  long. In young
specimens, the entire cap surface is coated with a fine layer of reflective
mica-like cells that provide the inspiration for both the mushroom's species
name and the common names mica cap, shiny cap, and glistening inky cap. Although
small and with thin flesh, the mushrooms are usually bountiful, as they
typically grow in dense clusters. A few hours after collection, the gills will
begin to slowly dissolve into a black, inky, spore-laden liquid—an enzymatic
process called autodigestion or deliquescence. The fruit bodies are edible
before the gills blacken and dissolve, and cooking will stop the autodigestion
process.
The microscopic characteristics and cytogenetics of C. micaceus are well known,
and it has been used frequently as a model organism to study cell division and
meiosis in Basidiomycetes. Chemical analysis of the fruit bodies has revealed
the presence of antibacterial and enzyme-inhibiting compounds. Formerly known as
Coprinus micaceus, the species was transferred to Coprinellus in 2001 as
phylogenetic analyses provided the impetus for a reorganization of the many
species formerly grouped together in the genus Coprinus. Based on external
appearance, C. micaceus is virtually indistinguishable from C. truncorum, and it
has been suggested that many reported collections of the former may be of the
latter.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coprinellus_micaceus) from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/) 

