About *Fusarium oxysporum Fo47* {#about-fusarium-oxysporum-fo47 .first}
-------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fusarium_oxysporum)

The ascomycete fungus ***Fusarium oxysporum*** Schlecht. as emended by
Snyder and Hansen comprises all the species, varieties and forms
recognized by Wollenweber and Reinking within an infrageneric grouping
called section Elegans. While the species, as defined by Snyder and
Hansen, has been widely accepted for more than 50 years, more recent
work indicates this taxon is actually a genetically heterogeneous
polytypic morphospecies whose strains represent some of the most
abundant and widespread microbes of the global soil microflora, although
this last statement has not been proven or supported by actual data.
These remarkably diverse and adaptable fungi have been found in soils
ranging from the Sonoran Desert, to tropical and temperate forests,
grasslands and soils of the tundra. *F. oxysporum* strains are
ubiquitous soil inhabitants that have the ability to exist as
saprophytes, and degrade lignin and complex carbohydrates associated
with soil debris. They are also pervasive plant endophytes that can
colonize plant roots and may even protect plants or be the basis of
disease suppression. Although the predominant role of these fungi in
native soils may be as harmless or even beneficial plant endophytes or
soil saprophytes, many strains within the *F. oxysporum* complex are
pathogenic to plants, especially in agricultural settings.

Because the hosts of a given ***forma specialis*** usually are closely
related, many have assumed that members of a ***forma specialis*** are
also closely related and have descended from common ancestor.; However,
results from recent research conducted on \**Fusarium oxysporum* f. sp.
*cubense* have forced scientists to question these assumptions.
Researchers used anonymous, single-copy restriction fragment length
polymorphsims (RFLPs) to identify 10 clonal lineages from a collection
of *F. oxysporum* f.sp. *cubense* from all over the world. These results
showed that pathogens of banana causing Panama disease could be closely
related to other host\'s pathogens, such as melon or tomato, as they are
to each other. Exceptional amounts of genetic diversity within *F.
oxysporum* f.sp. *cubense* also have been deduced from the high level of
chromosomal polymorphisms found among strains, random amplified
polymorphic DNA fingerprints, and from the number and geographic
distribution of vegetative compatibility groups.;

Presented with the wide-ranging occurrence of ***F. oxysporum*** strains
that are nonpathogenic, it is reasonable to expect that certain
pathogenic forms were descended from originally nonpathogenic ancestors.
Given the association of these fungi with plant roots, a form that is
able to grow beyond the cortex and into the xylem could quickly take
advantage of this ability and hopefully gain an advantage over those
fungi that are restricted to the cortex. The progression of a fungus
into the vascular tissue may elicit a response from the host
immediately, successfully restricting the invader; or an otherwise
ineffective or delayed response, reducing the vital water-conducing
capacity to induce wilting.; On the other hand, the plant might be able
to tolerate limited growth of the fungus within xylem vessels, preceded
by an endophytic association.; In this case, any further changes in the
host or parasite could disturb the relationship, in a way that fungal
activities or a response of the host would result in the generation of
certain disease symptoms.

Pathogenic strains of *F. oxysporum* have been studied for more than 100
years. The host range of these fungi is extremely broad, and includes
animals, ranging from arthropods to humans, as well as plants, including
a range of both gymnosperms and angiosperms. While collectively, plant
pathogenic *F. oxysporum* strains have a broad host range, individual
isolates usually cause disease only on a narrow range of plant species.
This observation has led to the idea of \"special form\" or *forma
specialis* in *F. oxysporum*. *Formae speciales* have been defined as
\"\...an informal rank in Classification\.....used for parasitic fungi
characterized from a physiological standpoint (e.g. by the ability to
cause disease in particular hosts) but scarcely or not at all from a
morphological standpoint.\" Exhaustive host range studies have been
conducted for relatively few *formae speciales* of *F. oxysporum*. For
more information on *Fusarium oxysporum* as a plant pathogen, see
Fusarium wilt.

Different strains of *F. oxysporum* have been used in the purpose of
producing nanomaterials (especially Silver nanoparticles).

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fusarium_oxysporum) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:K7725-1-sm.jpg) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
