About the *Fusarium solani* genome
----------------------------------

*Fusarium solani* is also referred to by its sexual name, *Nectria
haematococca*, and was referred to as such in earlier versions of
Ensembl Fungi.

As pathogens, members of this complex are responsible for disease on
about 100 genera of plants. They represent one of the most important
group of pathogens associated with opportunistic fungal infections and
keratitis in humans, a condition in which the front part of the eye
becomes inflamed. These fungi can survive in extreme environments.
*Fusarium solani* is among the fungal species that were found in the
highly radioactive inner parts of the damaged nuclear reactor at
Chernobyl.

*Fusarium solani* has been found growing in the [caves at
Lascaux](http://www.mycologia.org/cgi/content/abstract/99/4/526) in
France where it is damaging the 15 000 year old paintings. The ability
of these fungi to adapt to so many different environments shows their
genetic plasticity and metabolic diversity.

The most extensively studied species of the *Fusarium solani* complex is
the \"mating population\" (MP) VI of *Fusarium solani* which is also
called *Nectria haematococca* or *Haematonectria haematococca*. The term
\"mating population\" defines a group of isolates that are sexually
fertile with one another, indicating that they are a biological species.

*Fusarium solani MPVI* isolates can live in many habitats and analyses
have demonstrated that the genes controlling the ability of individual
isolates to colonise specific habitats are located on
conditionally-dispensable supernumerary chromosomes (\"CD
chromosomes\"). CD chromosomes are defined as supernumerary chromosomes
that are not required for growth under all conditions but confer an
adaptive advantage in certain habitats. Research has demonstrated that
in *Fusarium solani* *MPVI*, genes on these chromosomes are involved in
resistance to plant antimicrobials, utilisation of specific carbon and
nitrogen sources and in host-specific pathogenicity. The properties of
these chromosomes suggest that some of these genes and perhaps even
entire chromosomes might have been acquired through horizontal gene
transfer and have properties similar to the genomic islands of bacteria.

Optical mapping revealed that the *Fusarium solani MPVI* isolate 77-13-4
genome has 17 chromosomes ranging from 530 kb to 6.52 Mb and an overall
size of the genome of 54.43 Mb.
