About *Kluyveromyces lactis str. NRRL Y-1140 (GCA\_000002515)* {#about-kluyveromyces-lactis-str.-nrrl-y-1140-gca_000002515 .first}
--------------------------------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kluyveromyces_lactis)

***Kluyveromyces lactis*** is a *Kluyveromyces* yeast commonly used for
genetic studies and industrial applications. Its name comes from the
ability to assimilate lactose and convert it into lactic acid.

*Kluyveromyces lactis* (formerly *Saccharomyces lactis*) is a yeast
which has the ability to assimilate lactose and convert it into lactic
acid. *K. lactis* and other organisms i.e., *Aspergillus niger* var
awamori and *Escherichia coli* K-12 are grown in fermenters to produce
chymosin (rennet) on a commercial scale; this rennet, which replaces the
conventional form obtained from slaughtered animals, is now widely used
in cheese production.

Yeasts and fungi are ideal organisms for comparative genomic studies in
eukaryotes because of their small and compact genomes and because they
include a number of species such as *Neurospora crassa*, *Saccharomyces
cerevisiae* and *Schizosaccharomyces pombe*, that have been, and
continue to be, used extensively in genetic studies. However, the
divergence between these three species is ancient (estimated to be at
least 300 million years old) and the organization of their genomes is
quite different. The diversity of the hemiascomycetes, a group of
ascomycetes that contains most of the known yeast species was first
explored in 2000.

Complete sequencing and comparison of four hemiascomycetous yeasts has
been undertaken these are *Candida glabrata*, *Kluyveromyces lactis*,
*Debaryomyces hansenii*, and *Yarrowia lipolytica*. They were selected
on the basis of their phylogenetic positions and their specific interest
as human pathogens, or as industrially or environmentally important
yeasts. This work, which represents the first multispecies exploration
of genome evolution across an entire eukaryotic phylum, reveals the
variety of events and mechanisms that have taken place, and should allow
useful comparisons with other phyla of multicellular organisms when more
genome sequences are determined.

*K. lactis* is a heterothallic species with a predominantly haplontic
cycle, in contrast to *S. cerevisia*e in which the predominantly
diplobiontic cycle is pseudo-heterothallic due to mating-type
switching.;

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kluyveromyces_lactis) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
