About *Moniliophthora perniciosa FA553* {#about-moniliophthora-perniciosa-fa553 .first}
---------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moniliophthora_perniciosa)

***Moniliophthora perniciosa*** (previously *Crinipellis perniciosa*) is
a fungus that causes \"Witches\' Broom Disease\" (WBD) of the cocoa tree
(*Theobroma cacao*). This pathogen is currently limited to South
America, Panama and the Caribbean, and is perhaps one of the best-known
cocoa diseases, thought to have co-evolved with cocoa in its centre of
origin (first recorded in the Brazilian Amazon in 1785). In 1989, it was
introduced to the cocoa producing state of Bahia of Brazil, where output
diminished from 380,000 tonnes per annum to 90,000 tonnes in the late
1990s. Brazil went from being the world's second largest cocoa producer
to becoming a net importer. Unlike frosty pod rot, which is highly
infectious but mostly destructive to pods, WBD can infect many sites on
actively growing trees, throughout the growing season, and in severe
cases can cause tree death.

This fungus is hemibiotroph, with two characteristic phases: biotrophic
(expanding and infecting, on living tissue) and saprotrophic (producing
basidiospores, on necrotic tissue). The biotrophic stage, and what
triggers its switch to a saprotrophic stage, are still not understood.

The spores of this fungus are spread by wind, but must land in water in
order to germinate. As a consequence, it mainly spreads during rainy
periods. Control is very difficult, and requires extensive work to
remove. The most critical part of treatment (pruning of diseased
material) can only be conducted during dry periods, or one risks
spreading the disease further. Due to economics, most discarded brooms
are usually left on the ground, leaving a risk of reinfection of trees
the subsequent year. However, spraying the ground with a light coating
of oil can prevent the spores from becoming airborne again.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moniliophthora_perniciosa) and
[image](http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Crinipellis_perniciosa_mushroom.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
