About *Neurospora crassa str. 73 (GCA\_000786625)* 
--------------------------------------------------



***Neurospora crassa*** is a type of red bread mold of the phylum
Ascomycota. The genus name, meaning \"nerve spore\" in Greek, refers to
the characteristic striations on the spores. The first published account
of this fungus was from an infestation of French bakeries in 1843.

*N. crassa* is used as a model organism because it is easy to grow and
has a haploid life cycle that makes genetic analysis simple since
recessive traits will show up in the offspring. Analysis of genetic
recombination is facilitated by the ordered arrangement of the products
of meiosis in *Neurospora* ascospores. Its entire genome of seven
chromosomes has been sequenced.

*Neurospora* was used by Edward Tatum and George Wells Beadle in their
experiments for which they won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine
in 1958. Beadle and Tatum exposed *N. crassa* to x-rays, causing
mutations. They then observed failures in metabolic pathways caused by
errors in specific enzymes. This led them to propose the \"one gene, one
enzyme\" hypothesis that specific genes code for specific proteins.
Their hypothesis was later elaborated to enzyme pathways by Norman
Horowitz, also working on *Neurospora*. As Norman Horowitz reminisced in
2004, \"These experiments founded the science of what Beadle and Tatum
called \'biochemical genetics\'. In actuality, they proved to be the
opening gun in what became molecular genetics and all developments that
have followed from that.\"

In the 24 April 2003 issue of *Nature*, the genome of *N. crassa* was
reported as completely sequenced. The genome is about 43 megabases long
and includes approximately 10,000 genes. There is a project underway to
produce strains containing knockout mutants of every *N. crassa* gene.

In its natural environment, *N. crassa* lives mainly in tropical and
sub-tropical regions. It can be found growing on dead plant matter after
fires.

Neurospora is actively used in research around the world. It is
important in the elucidation of molecular events involved in circadian
rhythms, epigenetics and gene silencing, cell polarity, cell fusion,
development, as well as many aspects of cell biology and biochemistry.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neurospora_crassa) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Neurospora_crassahyphae.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
