About *Nosema ceranae BRL01* 
----------------------------



***Nosema ceranae*** is a microsporidian, a small, unicellular parasite
that mainly affects *Apis cerana*, the Asiatic honey bee. It may cause
nosemosis, also called nosema (see *Nosema apis*, the most widespread of
the adult honey bee diseases). The dormant stage of nosema is a
long-lived spore which is resistant to temperature extremes and
dehydration.

*Nosema ceranae* was first described in 1996 and was identified as a
disease of *Apis mellifera* in 2004 in Taiwan (Huang et al., 2007;
submitted in 2005 but published in 2007). Since its emergence in
honeybees *Nosema ceranae* has now been identified in bumblebee species
in South America, China, and England where infection studies indicate
*Nosema ceranae* has a higher virulence in bumblebees than honeybees.

Researchers in Spain have analysed samples of *Apis mellifera*, the
European honey bee, mostly sent from colonies suffering unexpected
decreases in bee population per hive or lower honey production, as
reported by the beekeepers during the last two/three years. In 2004, 90%
of some 3,000 samples had positive results for *N. ceranae*. In 2005, of
800 samples, 97% had positive results. During 2006, both France and
Germany have detected the disease and recognized the genetic sequence of
*Nosema ceranae* in their respective territories. In the United States,
*N. ceranae* has been detected in honey bees from Nebraska, Wisconsin,
Arkansas, New York and South Dakota using PCR of the 16S gene. In New
York, *N. ceranae* was detected in 49 counties, and of the 1200 honey
bee samples collected, 528 (44%) were positive for *Nosema*, from which,
PCR analysis of 371 spore positive samples revealed that 96% were *N.
ceranae*, 3% had both *N. ceranae* and *N. apis*, and 1% had *N. apis*
only.

This pathogen has been tentatively linked to colony collapse disorder, a
phenomenon reported primarily from the United States, since fall of
2006. Highly preliminary evidence of *N. ceranae* was reported in a few
hives in the Central Valley area of California (USA). \"Tests of genetic
material taken from a \"collapsed colony\" in Merced County point to a
once-rare microbe that previously affected only Asian bees but might
have evolved into a strain lethal to those in Europe and the United
States.\" The researcher did not, however, believe this was conclusive
evidence of a link to CCD; \"We don\'t want to give anybody the
impression that this thing has been solved.\" A USDA bee scientist has
similarly stated, \"while the parasite nosema ceranae may be a factor,
it cannot be the sole cause. The fungus has been seen before, sometimes
in colonies that were healthy.\" Likewise, a Washington State beekeeper
familiar with *N. ceranae* in his own hives discounts it as being the
cause of CCD. In early 2009 Higes *et al.* reported an association
between CCD and N. ceranae was established free of confounding factors,
and that weakened colonies treated with fumagillin recovered.

News articles published in October 2010 quoted researchers who had
discovered that Nosema fungus had joined with a previously unsuspected
virus, Invertebrate Iridescent Virus, or IIV6, dealing test bee colonies
a lethal blow. Neither the fungus nor the virus alone kill all the test
group, but the two combined do. Both the fungus and the virus are found
together with high frequency in hives that have suffered CCD. Final
testing is in progress with field tests on colonies.

*N. ceranae* and *N. apis* have similar life cycles, but they differ in
spore morphology. Spores of *N. ceranae* seem to be slightly smaller
under the light microscope and the number of polar filament coils is
between 20 and 23, rather than the more than 30 often seen in *N. apis*.

The disease afflicts adult bees and depopulation occurs with consequent
losses in honey production. One does not detect symptoms of diarrhea
like in *Nosema apis*.

The most significant difference between the two types is how quickly *N.
ceranae* can cause a colony to die. Bees can die within 8 days after
exposure to *N. ceranae* (Higes et al. 2006), a finding not yet
confirmed by other researchers. The forager caste seems the most
affected, leaving the colony presumably to forage, but never returning.
This results in a reduced colony consisting mostly of nurse bees with
their queen; a state very similar to that seen in CCD. There is little
advice on treatment but it has been suggested that the most effective
control of *Nosema ceranae* is the antibiotic fumagillin as recommended
for *Nosema apis*. The genome of *Nosema ceranae* was sequenced by
scientists in 2009. This should help scientists trace its migration
patterns, establish how it became dominant, and help measure the spread
of infection by enabling diagnostic tests and treatments to be
developed.

*Nosema ceranae* is apparently released from the suppressive effects of
fumagillin at higher concentrations than that of *Nosema apis*. At
fumagillin concentrations that continue to impact honey bee physiology,
*N. ceranae* thrives and doubles its spore production. The current
application protocol for fumagillin may exacerbate N. ceranae infection
rather than suppress it. Fumagillin application should be a major cause
of *N. ceranae* dominance in this time.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nosema_ceranae) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
