About *Ophiocordyceps sinensis CO18* 
------------------------------------



***Ophiocordyceps sinensis*** is a fungus that parasitizes larvae of
ghost moths and produces a fruiting body valued as an herbal remedy
found in mountainous regions of India, Nepal and Tibet.

The fungus germinates in the living larva, kills and mummifies it, and
then the stalk-like fruiting body emerges from the corpse. It is known
in English colloquially as **caterpillar fungus**, or by its more
prominent names ***Yartsa Gunbu*** (, literally \"winter worm, summer
grass\"), or ***Dōng chóng xià cǎo*** (). Of the various
entomopathogenic fungi, *Ophiocordyceps sinensis* is one that has been
used for at least 2000 years for its reputed abilities to treat many
diseases related to lungs, kidney, and erectile dysfunction. This fungus
is not yet cultivated commercially, despite the fact that several
fermentable strains of *Ophiocordyceps sinensis* have been isolated by
Chinese scientists. Overharvesting and overexploitation have led to the
classification of *O. sinensis* as an endangered species in China.
Additional research needs to be carried out in order to understand its
morphology and growth habits for conservation and optimum utilization.

The hosts in which *O. sinensis* grows are ambiguously referred to as
\"ghost moths\", which identifies either a single species or the genus
*Thitarodes*: they may be one of several *Thitarodes* that live on the
Tibetan Plateau (Tibet, Qinghai, West-Sichuan, SW-Gansu & NW Yunnan),
and the Himalayas (India, Nepal, Bhutan).

*O. sinensis* is known in the West as a medicinal mushroom, and its use
has a long history in Traditional Chinese medicine as well as
Traditional Tibetan medicine. The hand-collected, intact
fungus-caterpillar body is valued by herbalists and as a status symbol;;
it is used as an aphrodisiac and treatment for ailments such as fatigue
and cancer, although such use is validated mainly by traditional Chinese
medicine and anecdote, and evidenced-based research into its efficacy is
lacking.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ophiocordyceps_sinensis) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Cordyceps_sinensis.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
