About *Ophiocordyceps sinensis CO18 (GCA\_000448365)* {#about-ophiocordyceps-sinensis-co18-gca_000448365 .first}
-----------------------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ophiocordyceps_sinensis)

***Ophiocordyceps sinensis*** (formerly known as ***Cordyceps
sinensis***) or Yarsa-gumba, Yarsha-gumba or Yarcha-gumba, यार्सागुम्बा
(in Nepali language) is an entomopathogenic fungus (a fungus that grows
on insects) in the family Ophiocordycipitaceae. It mainly found in the
meadows above 3,500 meters (11,483 feet) in the Himalayan regions of
Nepal, Bhutan, India and Tibet. It parasitizes larvae of ghost moths and
produces a fruiting body which used to be valued as a herbal remedy.
However, the fruiting bodies harvested in nature usually contain high
amounts of arsenic and other heavy metals so they are potentially toxic
and sales have been strictly regulated by the CFDA (China Food and Drug
Administration) in 2016.

*O. sinensis* parasitizes the larvae of moths within the family
Hepialidae; specifically genera from the Tibetan Plateau, and the
Himalayas that are found between 3-5000m ASL. The fungus germinates in
the living larva, kills and mummifies it, and then a dark brown
stalk-like fruiting body which is a few centimeters long emerges from
the corpse and stands upright.

It is known in English colloquially as **caterpillar fungus**, or by its
more prominent names ***yartsa gunbu*** (, literally \"winter worm,
summer grass\"), or ***dōng chóng xià cǎo*** ().

*O. sinensis* is classified as a medicinal mushroom, and its use has a
long history in traditional Chinese medicine as well as traditional
Tibetan medicine. The hand-collected, intact fungus-caterpillar body is
valued by herbalists as medicine, and because of its cost, its use is
also a status symbol.;

This fruiting bodies of the fungus are not yet cultivated commercially,
but the mycelium form can be cultivated in vitro. Overharvesting and
overexploitation have led to the classification of *O. sinensis* as an
endangered species in China. Additional research needs to be carried out
in order to understand its morphology and growth habits for conservation
and optimum utilization.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ophiocordyceps_sinensis) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
