About *Rhizoctonia solani AG-1 IA* 
----------------------------------



***Rhizoctonia solani*** (teleomorph: ***Thanatephorus* spp.**) is a
plant pathogenic fungus with a wide host range and worldwide
distribution. This plant pathogen was discovered more than 100 years
ago. Rhizoctonia solani frequently exists as thread-like growth on
plants or in culture, and is considered a soil-borne pathogen.
Rhizoctonia solani is best known to cause various plant diseases such as
collar rot, root rot, damping off and wire stem. Rhizoctonia solani
attacks its host(s) when they are in their juvenile stages of
development such as seeds and seedlings, which are typically found in
the soil. It makes sense then this saprophytic pathogen would live and
survive in the soil, and attack the part of its hosts that reside there.
The pathogen is known to cause serious plant losses by attacking
primarily the roots and lower stems of plants and although it has a wide
range of hosts, their main targets are herbaceous plants. Rhizoctonia
Solani would be considered a basidiomycete fungus if the teleomorph
stage were more abundant. The pathogen is not currently known to produce
any asexual (conidia) spores, though it is considered to have an asexual
life cycle; Occasionally, sexual spores (basidiospores) are produced on
infected plants. The disease cycle of Rhizoctonia solani is important in
regards to management and control of the pathogen.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhizoctonia_solani) and
[image](http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Rhizoctonia_hyphae_160X.png)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
