About *Rhizoctonia solani*
--------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhizoctonia_solani)

***Rhizoctonia solani*** (teleomorph: ***Thanatephorus* spp.**) is a
plant pathogenic fungus with a wide host range and worldwide
distribution. This plant pathogen was discovered more than 100 years
ago. *R. solani* frequently exists as thread-like growth on plants or in
culture, and is considered a soil-borne pathogen. *R. solani* is best
known to cause various plant diseases such as collar rot, root rot,
damping off and wire stem. *R. solani* attacks its hosts when they are
in their juvenile stages of development such as seeds and seedlings,
which are typically found in the soil. It makes sense then that this
saprophytic pathogen would live and survive in the soil and attack the
part of its hosts that reside there. The pathogen is known to cause
serious plant losses by attacking primarily the roots and lower stems of
plants. Although it has a wide range of hosts, its main targets are
herbaceous plants. *R. solani* would be considered a basidiomycete
fungus if the teleomorph stage were more abundant. The pathogen is not
currently known to produce any asexual (conidia) spores, though it is
considered to have an asexual life cycle. Occasionally, sexual spores
(basidiospores) are produced on infected plants. The disease cycle of
*R. solani* is important in regards to management and control of the
pathogen.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhizoctonia_solani) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Rhizoctonia_hyphae_160X.png)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
