About *Suillus luteus UH-Slu-Lm8-n1 (GCA\_000827255)* 
-----------------------------------------------------



***Suillus luteus*** is a bolete fungus, and the type species of the
genus *Suillus*. A common fungus native to Eurasia, from the British
Isles to Korea, it has been introduced widely elsewhere, including North
and South America, southern Africa, Australia and New Zealand. Commonly
referred to as **slippery jack** or **sticky bun** in English-speaking
countries, its names refer to the brown cap, which is characteristically
slimy in wet conditions. The fungus, initially described as *Boletus
luteus* by Carl Linnaeus in 1753, is now classified in a different
family as well as genus. *Suillus luteus* is edible, though not as
highly regarded as other bolete mushrooms, and is commonly prepared and
eaten in soups, stews or fried dishes. The slime coating, however, may
cause indigestion if not removed before eating.

The fungus grows in coniferous forests in its native range, and pine
plantations in countries where it has become naturalized. It forms
symbiotic ectomycorrhizal associations with living trees by enveloping
the tree\'s underground roots with sheaths of fungal tissue. The fungus
produces spore-bearing fruit bodies, often in large numbers, above
ground in summer and autumn. The fruit body cap often has a distinctive
conical shape before flattening with age, reaching up to in diameter.
Like other boletes, it has tubes extending downward from the underside
of the cap, rather than gills; spores escape at maturity through the
tube openings, or pores. The pore surface is yellow, and covered by a
membranous partial veil when young. The pale stipe, or stem, measures up
to 10 cm (4 in) tall and thick and bears small dots near the top. Unlike
most other boletes, it bears a distinctive membranous ring that is
tinged brown to violet on the underside.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suillus_luteus) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
