About *Blastocystis hominis str. Singapore isolate B (sub-type 7)* {#about-blastocystis-hominis-str.-singapore-isolate-b-sub-type-7 .first}
------------------------------------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blastocystis)

***Blastocystis*** is a genus of single-celled heterokont parasites
belonging to a group of organisms that are known as the Stramenopiles
(also called Heterokonts) that includes algae, diatoms, and water molds.
Blastocystis consists of several species, living in the gastrointestinal
tracts of species as diverse as humans, farm animals, birds, rodents,
reptiles, amphibians, fish, and cockroaches. In less developed areas,
infection rates as high as 100% have been observed. High rates of
infection are found in individuals in developed countries who work with
animals. The paper attributed confusion over pathogenicity to the
existence of asymptomatic carriers, a phenomenon the study noted is
common to all gastrointestinal protozoa. However, *Blastocystis* has
never fulfilled Koch\'s postulate that infection of a healthy individual
with *Blastocystis* leads to disease. The fact that *Blastocystis*\'
infection route is oral-anal indicates that carriers have been in
contact with faecal contaminated matter which might have included other
intestinal pathogens that explain the observed symptoms. A more likely
explanation is the presence of virulent and non-virulent strains as
there exists and enormous genetic variation between different strains
(or genotypes). See the genotype paper by Rune Stensvold and the recent
*Blastocystis* genome paper expanding on this diversity. An alternative
theory that *Blastocystis* is not a pathogen at all has recently been
strengthened based on its biochemistry.

([Text](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blastocystis) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Four_common_forms_of_Blastocystis_hominis_Valzn.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
