About *Eimeria maxima* {#about-eimeria-maxima .first}
----------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eimeria_maxima)

***Eimeria maxima*** is a species of *Eimeria* that causes coccidiosis
in poultry. It is located in the middle part of the intestine, on either
side of Meckel\'s diverticulum, and frequently ascends into the
duodenum.; The lesions it causes are limited to the middle of the small
intestine.

Characteristics of attenuated lines obtained by selection for precocious
development in the chicken. V, Shirley MW, Bellatti MA. Abstract: Both
the Weybridge strain and a mixture of six laboratory and field strains
of Eimeria maxima have been attenuated by selection for early maturation
of oocysts during serial passage in chickens. The prepatent times of the
resultant precocious lines produces after selection were reduced from
approximately 120 hr to less than 107 hr, and their reproduction and
pathogenicity were less than those of the parent strains. Chickens which
had been inoculated with a small number of oocysts of the Weybridge
precocious or mixed field isolate precocious lines were immune to
subsequent challenge with the parent strains. In a comparison made
between the endogenous development of the precocious lines and their
parent strains, it was found that asexual multiplication of the
precocious lines was reduced, due to the earlier onset of gametogony.
The results of this study also indicate that the parent (i.e., normal)
strains of E. maxima probably undergo a minimum of four generations of
schizogony.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eimeria_maxima) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Emaxima_oocysts_usda.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
