About *Ichthyophthirius multifiliis str. G5* {#about-ichthyophthirius-multifiliis-str.-g5 .first}
--------------------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ichthyophthirius_multifiliis)

***Ichthyophthirius multifiliis*** is an ectoparasite of freshwater fish
which causes a disease commonly known as **white spot disease**, or
**Ich**. Ich is one of the most common and persistent diseases in fish.
It appears on the body, fins and gills of fish as white nodules of up to
1Â mm, that look like white grains of salt. Each white spot is an
encysted parasite. It is easily introduced into a fish pond or home
aquarium by new fish or equipment which has been moved from one
fish-holding unit or pond to another. When the organism gets into a
large fish culture facility, it is difficult to control due to its fast
reproductive cycle and its unique life stages. If not controlled, there
is a 100% mortality rate of fish. With careful treatment, the disease
can be controlled but the cost is high in terms of lost fish, labor, and
cost of chemicals.

The protozoa damages the gills and skin as it enters the tissues,
leading to ulceration and loss of skin. Severe infections rapidly lead
to loss of condition and death. Damage to the gills reduces the
respiratory efficiency of the fish, reducing its oxygen intake from the
water. This causes the fish to become less tolerant to low oxygen
concentrations in the water.

Contrary to popular belief, white-spot is not present in every aquarium
or pond.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ichthyophthirius_multifiliis) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
