About *Ichthyophthirius multifiliis* 
------------------------------------



***Ichthyophthirius multifiliis*** (commonly known as **freshwater white
spot disease**, **freshwater ich**, or **freshwater ick**) is a common
disease of freshwater fish. It is easily introduced into a fish pond or
home aquarium by new fish or equipment which has been moved from one
fish-holding unit to another. When the organism gets into a large fish
culture facility, it is difficult to control due to its fast
reproductive cycle and its unique life stages. If not controlled, there
is a 100% mortality rate of fish. With careful treatment, the disease
can be controlled but the cost is high in terms of lost fish, labor, and
cost of chemicals.

Whitespot is very damaging to the gills and skin. In heavily infected
fish it can cause a rapid deterioration of condition, considerable
distress and death. Infected fish have small white spots on the skin and
gills (Fig. 2 and Fig. 3) and produce excess mucus, due to irritation.
Whitespot causes most damage when entering and leaving the tissues of
the fish. This can lead to the loss of skin and ulcers. These wounds can
harm the ability of a fish to control the movement of water into its
body. Damage caused to the gill tissue of an infected fish can also
reduce respiratory efficiency. This means it is more difficult for the
fish to obtain oxygen from the water, and becomes less tolerant to low
levels of dissolved oxygen.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ichthyophthirius_multifiliis) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
