About *Leishmania mexicana MHOM/GT/2001/U1103* 
----------------------------------------------



\[\[Image:LeishmaniaMexicana Promastigote
SEM.jpg\|thumb\|right\|250px\|False colour SEM micrograph of
Promastigote form *Leishmania mexicana* as found in the sandfly midgut.
The cell body is shown in orange and the flagellum is in red. 119
pixels/μm.\]\] \[\[Image:LeishmaniaMexicana Amastigote
SEM.jpg\|thumb\|right\|250px\|Amastigote form *Leishmania mexicana* as
found in mammalian macrophages, 219 pixels/μm.\]\]

**Leishmania mexicana** is a Leishmania species and is one of the
causative species of leishmaniasis.

*Leishmania mexicana* is an obligate intracellular protozoan parasite
that causes the mildest form of leishmaniasis. This species of
Leishmania is found in South and Central America. Infection with *L.
mexicana* occurs when an individual is bitten by an infected sand fly
that injects the infective promastigotes, which are carried in the
proboscis, directly into the skin.

The life cycle of this and other *Leishmania* species are similar and
begin when an infected fly bites and injects it promastigotes in the
skin of host and once inside these promastigotes are phagocytosed by
macrophages that transform into amastigotes and are able to divide. Upon
maximum levels of amastigote divisions, the macrophages burst releasing
more amastigotes that are again re-phagocytosed. When an uninfected sand
fly bites an infected individual, the fly ingest the amastigotes and
these transform into promastigotes and divide in the midgut of the fly,
finally these promastigotes migrate to the proboscis and are now able to
transmit the disease. There are no blood stages in the life cycle of *L.
mexicana* (unlike Malaria and Trypanosomiasis).

File:Leishmania\_LifeCycle.gif

*L. mexicana* has the ability to cause both a cutaneous and a diffuse
cutaneous type of infection. The cutaneous type manifests itself in the
form of ulcers at the bite site, here the amastigotes do not spread and
the ulcers become visible either a few days or several months after the
initial bite, these ulcers heal spontaneously. The diffuse cutaneous
type manifests itself when the amastigote spreads cutaneously in those
with defective T-cell immunity. This type of infection responds very
poorly to drugs and therefore causes sores or ulcers all over the
host\'s body.

In 1994, Robertson et al. noted that the amastigotes of *L. mexicana*
have a higher activity of cystein proteases compared to its promastigote
forms. This observation is thought to be an important characteristic
that may aid in the survival of the amastigote in the macrophages of its
host.

Treatment of Leishmaniasis caused by *L. mexicana* is generally
unnecessary since the infection tends to disappear spontaneously, but in
cases where the infection becomes chronic or spreads on the host, the
treatment of choice is pentavalent antimony, which works by inhibiting
the synthesis of ATP. The drug of choice in the United States is
Penstostam.

Prevention of *L. mexicana* infection can be done by avoiding contact
with sandfly-infested areas. Although this can be difficult since these
flies have been progressively become more adaptive to urban areas.
Research is being done to develop a vaccine against the promastigotes,
although the work by Roberts may shed light into developing a vaccine or
agent that targets the cystein proteases and other enzymes that are
found in abundance in the amastigotes.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leishmania_mexicana) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Leishmania_mexicana.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
