About *Leishmania donovani str. BPK282A1* 
-----------------------------------------



***Leishmania donovani*** is a species of intracellular parasites
belonging to the genus *Leishmania*, a group of haemoflagellate
kinetoplastids that cause the disease leishmaniasis. It is a human blood
parasite responsible for visceral leishmaniasis or *kala-azar*, the most
severe form of leishmaniasis. It infects the mononuclear phagocyte
system including spleen, liver and bone marrow. Infection is transmitted
by species of sandfly belonging to the genus *Phlebotomus* in Old World
and *Lutzomyia* in New World. Therefore, the parasite is prevalent
throughout tropical and temperate regions including Africa (mostly in
Sudan), China, India, Nepal, southern Europe, Russia and South America.
It is responsible for thousands of deaths every year and has spread to
88 countries, with 350 million people at constant risk of infection and
0.5 million new cases in a year.

*L. donovani* was independently discovered by two British medical
officers William Boog Leishman in Netley, England, and Charles Donovan
in Madras, India, in 1903. However, the correct taxonomy was provided by
Ronald Ross. The parasite requires two different hosts for a complete
life cycle, humans as the definitive host and sandflies as the
intermediate host. In some parts of the world other mammals, especially
canines, act as reservoir hosts. In human cell they exist as small,
spherical and unflagellated amastigote form; while they are elongated
with flagellum as promastigote form in sandflies. Unlike other parasitic
protists they are unable to directly penetrate the host cell, and are
dependent upon phagocytosis. The whole genome sequence of *L. donovani*
obtained from southeastern Nepal was published in 2011.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leishmania_donovani) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
