About *Naegleria gruberi* 
-------------------------



***Naegleria gruberi*** is a species of *Naegleria*. It is famous for
its ability to change from an amoeba, which lacks a cytoplasmic
microtubule cytoskeleton, to a flagellate, which has an elaborate
microtubule cytoskeleton, including flagella. This \"transformation\"
includes *de novo* synthesis of basal bodies (or centrioles).

It was first characterized in 1899, and the genome sequence published in
2010.

*Naegleria gruberi* has been experimentally shown to be non pathogenic,
although it is related to several pathogenic *Naegleria* species,
including *Naegleria fowleri*.

*Naegleria gruberi* is a free-living organism that can be extracted from
wet soil and freshwater The strain NEG-M is the only *Naegleria* species
that has a fully sequenced genome. *Naegleria* belongs to the Jakobids,
Euglenozoans, and Heteroloboseans (JEH) group. The *Naegleria* genome
sequence has indicated that the amoeboflagellate contains actin and
microtubule cytoskeletons, mitotic and meiotic machinery, and several
transcription factors. *Naegleria*\'s mitochondrial genome encodes some
components of a mitochondrial c and c1 maturation system.

*Naegleria\'s* mitochondria resembles the evolutionary intermediate
thought to have occurred within the ancestor of all eukaryotes, because
of its presence of mitochondrial Fe-hydrogenase and complete aerobic
respiration system. The *Naegleria* genome is able to oxidize glucose,
various amino acids and fatty acids through the Krebs cycle.

The ancestor of existing eukaryotes have been thought to contain a fair
number of introns. Nearly 36% of *Naegleria* genes are assumed to
contain at least one intron and 17% contain multiple introns. The
position of the introns are conserved, indicating that they are ancient.

*Naegleria* amoeba undergo a closed mitosis, in which the nuclear
envelope doesn\'t break down, but still proceeds through the typical
stages. The multitubulin hypothesis predicts that eukaroytes contain
multiple tublin genes with distinct properties. *Naegleria* uses
different tubulins for mitosis and flagellar assembly.

Observations suggest that *Naegleria* is primarily an asexual organism
that reproduces by division of its amoebae to produce substantial clonal
populations. However, analysis of the genome strain NEG-M revealed that
it is a composite of two distinct haplotypes having arisen from an
interbreeding population. Therefore, *Naegleria* is likely to be able to
undergo genetic exchange. The NEG-M strain is the heterozygous result of
a past mating of two strains, and it appears genetically equipped to
mate again. However, further studies still need to be performed.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naegleria_gruberi) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:9863_lores.jpg) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
