About *Peronospora effusa* 
--------------------------



***Peronospora farinosa*** is a plant pathogen. It causes downy mildew
on leaves of wild and cultivated *Amaranthaceae*: *Amaranthus*,
*Atriplex*, *Bassia*, *Beta*, *Chenopodium*, *Halimione*, *Salsola*,
*Spinacia*, etc. In the past, the forms of *Peronospora* on these
different genera, and their species, were given different species names,
The pathogen persists as oospores in the soil, or on beet seed crops, or
on overwintered volunteer beet plants. Attacks are most important at the
seedling stage. The cotyledons are systemically infected, becoming
discoloured and distorted. Loss of seedlings causes uneven crop
development. Beet leaves are less affected, so a crop can to a
substantial effect recover from an attack on seedlings. Control relies
on adequate crop rotation and avoidance of sources of infection (e.g.
adequate control of the disease on beet seed crops), as oospores survive
only 2--3 years in the soil. Individual infected plants may also be
removed. It is not generally necessary to apply fungicides.

Downy mildew has more direct importance on spinach (*Spinacia
oleracea*), since it affects the harvested part (leaves). Yellow lesions
appear on the older leaves. If rotating crops and removing individual
infected plants fails, fungicide treatments are effective, and resistant
cultivars are available.

([Text](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peronospora_farinosa) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Pseudoperonospora_farinosa_f.sp._spinaciae_at_Spinacia_oleracea_(6).jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
