About *Plasmodiophora brassicae* 
--------------------------------



220px\|thumb\|Clubroot on cauliflower **Clubroot** is a common disease
of cabbages, broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, radishes, turnips,
stocks, wallflowers and other plants belonging to the family
Brassicaceae (Cruciferae). It is caused by *Plasmodiophora brassicae*,
which was once considered a slime mold but is now put in the group
Phytomyxea. It is the first Phytomyxea for which the genome has been
sequenced. It has as many as thirteen races. Gall formation or
distortion takes place on latent roots and gives the shape of a club or
spindle. In the cabbage such attacks on the roots cause undeveloped
heads or a failure to head at all, followed often by decline in vigor or
by death. It is an important disease, affecting an estimated 10% of the
total cultured area worldwide.

Historical reports of clubroot date back to the 13th century in Europe.
In the late 19th century, a severe epidemic of clubroot destroyed large
proportions of the cabbage crop in St. Petersburg. The Russian scientist
Mikhail Woronin eventually identified the cause of clubroot as a
\"plasmodiophorous organism\" in 1875, and gave it the name
*Plasmodiophora brassicae*.

In 18th, 19th and early 20th century Britain clubroot was sometimes
called *finger and toe*, *fingers and toes*, *anbury*, or *ambury*,
these last two also meaning a soft tumor on a horse.

The potential of cultural practices to reduce crop losses due to
clubroot is limited, and chemical treatments to control the disease are
either banned due to environmental regulations or are not cost
effective. Breeding of resistant cultivars therefore is a promising
alternative.

([Text](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clubroot) from
[Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
