About *Toxoplasma gondii VAND* {#about-toxoplasma-gondii-vand .first}
------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toxoplasma_gondii)

***Toxoplasma gondii*** () is an obligate intracellular parasitic
one-celled eukaryote (specifically an apicomplexan) that causes the
infectious disease toxoplasmosis. This asymptomatic state of infection
is referred to as a latent infection and has recently been associated
with numerous subtle adverse or pathological behavioral alterations in
humans.

*T. gondii* has been shown to alter the behavior of infected rodents in
ways that increase the rodents\' chances of being preyed upon by felids.
Because cats are the only hosts within which *T. gondii* can sexually
reproduce to complete and begin its lifecycle, such behavioral
manipulations are thought to be evolutionary adaptations that increase
the parasite\'s reproductive success. The rats would not shy away from
areas where cats live and would also be less able to escape should a cat
try to prey on them. The primary mechanisms of *T. gondii*--induced
behavioral changes in rodents is now known to occur through epigenetic
remodeling in neurons which govern the associated behaviors; for
example, it modifies epigenetic methylation to cause hypomethylation of
arginine vasopressin-related genes in the medial amygdala to greatly
decrease predator aversion. and bipolar disorder. preliminary evidence
suggests that *T. gondii* infection may induce some of the same
alterations in the human brain as those observed in mice.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toxoplasma_gondii) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Toxoplasma_gondii_tachy.jpg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
