About *Trypanosoma cruzi Dm28c* {#about-trypanosoma-cruzi-dm28c .first}
-------------------------------

[![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia_logo_v2_en.png){#wiki_icon}](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trypanosoma_cruzi)

***Trypanosoma cruzi*** is a species of parasitic euglenoid protozoan.
Amongst the protozoa, the trypanosomes characteristically bore tissue in
another organism and feed on blood, and lymph. This behaviour causes
disease or the likelihood of disease that varies with the organism: for
example, trypanosomiasis in humans (Chagas disease in South America and
sleeping sickness in Africa), dourine and surra in horses, and a
brucellosis-like disease in cattle. Parasites need a host body and the
haematophagous insect triatomine (descriptions \"assassin bug\",
\"cone-nose bug\", and \"kissing bug\") is the major vector in accord
with a mechanism of infection. The triatomine likes the nests of
vertebrate animals for shelter, where it bites and sucks blood for food.
Individual triatomines infected with protozoa from other contact with
animals transmit trypanosomes when the triatomine deposits its faeces on
the host\'s skin surface and then bites. Penetration of the infected
faeces is further facilitated by the scratching of the bite area by the
human or animal host.

Trypanosomiasis in humans progresses with the development of the
trypanosome into a trypomastigote in the blood and into an amastigote in
tissues. The acute form of trypanosomiasis is usually unnoticed,
although it may manifest itself as a localized swelling at the site of
entry. The chronic form may develop 10 to 20 years after infection and
affect internal organs (e.g., the heart, the oesophagus, the colon, and
the peripheral nervous system). Affected people may die from heart
failure.

Acute cases are treated with nifurtimox and benznidazole, but no
effective therapy for chronic cases is currently known.

([Text](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trypanosoma_cruzi) and
[image](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Trypanosoma_cruzi_crithidia.jpeg)
from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/), the free encyclopaedia.)
