About *Tetranychus urticae*
---------------------------

*Tetranychus urticae*, the two-spotted spider mite, is a tiny (\~0.4mm
long) herbivorous chelicerate that eats a wide range of plants,
including many agriculturally important species such as
[maize](http://plants.ensembl.org/Zea_mays/Info) and
[tomato](http://plants.ensembl.org/Solanum_lycopersicum/Info). *T.
urticae* has adaptations to cope with plant defence strategies, and is
able to rapidly develop resistance to pesticides \[1\], so infestations
are often controlled with predatory mites such as *Phytoseiulus
persimilis*.

In common with the [pea aphid](/Acyrthosiphon_pisum/Info), *T. urticae*
can synthesize carotenoids (unlike all other animals) due to fungal-like
genes gained through horizontal gene transfer \[2\]. These carotenoid
genes are not known in other arthropods, but appear sufficiently similar
to imply one ancestral transfer event in arthropods, suggesting a
secondary transfer between aphid and spider mite (since gene loss in so
many other species is implausible) \[3\]. As their name suggests, spider
mites spin webs with silk on the undersides of leaves, although the
mechanism has a distinct evolutionary origin compared to silk production
in spiders. The genome sequence of *T. urticae* is thus a valuable
resource for the study of specific areas such as pest-plant interactions
or the use of silk as a biomaterial, and as a representative chelicerate
in broader studies of metazoa \[3\].

Picture credit (Creative Commons BY-SA 3.0): [J.
Holopainen](http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Tetranychus-urticae.jpg)
2006
