About *Lutzomyia longipalpis*
-----------------------------

The sand fly *Lutzomyia longipalpis* is distributed from Mexico to
Argentina, including all the countries of Central America (except
Belize) and most of tropical South America east of the Andes (except
Guyana, Surinam and French Guiana). Across its distribution range is the
major vector of *American visceral leishmaniasis*. Studies suggest that
*L. longipalpis* may be a single heterogeneous species or a species
complex.

Picture credit: Ray Wilson, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine
 - (2009) PLoS Pathogens Issue Image - Vol. 5(8) August 2009. PLoS Pathog 5(8): ev05.i08.
[//doi.org/10.1371/image.ppat.v05.i08](https://doi.org/10.1371/image.ppat.v05.i08)
[CC BY 2.5](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5) 
via [Wikimedia Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=7805367)

*Jacobina* strain
-----------------

*Lutzomyia longipalpis* (Lutz & Neiva, 1912) (Diptera: Psychodidae) is a
new world sand fly. It was the first *Lutzomyia* species to be
recognised as a vector of *Leishmania* in South and Central America. The
female *L*. *longipalpis* transmits a protozoan parasite *Leishmania
infantum* (also know as *L. chagasi*).

The strain of sand flies used for the sequencing were originally
collected by Prof Richard Ward in the 1988 from Jacobina, Bahia State,
Brazil. They were kept at the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine
before transfer to their present site based at Lancaster University in
NW England.

*Lutzomyia longipalpis* is thought to be a species complex but the
number within the complex and their relationships are unclear. The
sibling species are thought to differ in their vectorial capacity and
genome sequencing will help to identify the most important vector
species. This knowledge is vital to understand the epidemiology and
control of this neglected disease in South and Central America

Source:
[VectorBase](https://www.vectorbase.org/organisms/lutzomyia-longipalpis)
